I think this is really interesting, so I
got to share it with you. Uh this is
Ross Hudgens. He's he's actually an
investor in Spark Toro and the founder
and CEO of Siege Media. They just
published this study today uh showing
this data about um homepage traffic
being
up as a result of AI AI both in terms of
like chatbt and perplexity and all the
other ones, but also Google's AI
overviews. So they looked at 50 websites
and they basically kind of have some
good news in the era of the death of the
click and the death of traffic. So
what's happening here is that they are
analyzing what happened to traffic
overall on a website and what happened
to homepage traffic and then reverse
engineering why and how. So look at this
uh search traffic. You can see this
example of a bunch of charts, right,
that that like things were going up and
up for years, but in the last 12 months
and especially six months, things have
been falling. And a big part of that
obviously is Google traffic because
Google is ending clicks, right? More and
more clicks are ending without more and
more searches are ending without a
click. Great example that he shows here
that Ross shows here. Best email
marketing software. So here's a search.
What is best email marketing software
gets tons of searches. And look, the
best email marketing software depends
blah blah blah, but some top contenders
are blah blah blah blah blah blah.
Mailchimp's in here, HubSpot's in here,
Active Campaigns in here, Mailorite. And
then you can you can see these brands
here. And so rather than going to a page
on uh some of these websites and
Mailchimp does have a best email
platform, right? This content piece.
Instead, what's happening is that search
and that whole experience is happening
inside Google. You're not consuming
content on Mailchimp's website. You're
consuming the content on Google's AI
overview, which results in more branded
search, exactly as Ross said. And so,
here you can see the rise in traffic to
the homepage and uh conversely the fall
in traffic to the whole website. This is
changing how people should think about
digital marketing and especially search
um and and content creation. You're
creating content on your website so that
other people will pick it up and then
you are trying to market that content to
other places so that your brand becomes
the one that shows up in the large
language models and that shows up at the
top of AI overviews and that shows up in
the instant answers wherever those might
be. and you're not so worried about
whether the piece of content that you
made specifically gets more traffic from
Google or anywhere else. This is it's a
big change. I urge you to check out the
whole study. I think Ross and his team
have done some really great work here.
I'll link to it in the comments.